Updated the explainer with new origin offset mechanics. (#642)
immersive-web/webxr: spatial-tracking-explainer.md

### Viewer reference spaces
A _viewer_ reference space's origin is always at the position and orientation of the viewer device. This type of reference space is primarily used for creating inline experiences with no tracking of the viewer relative to it's physical environment. Instead, developers may use `XRReferenceSpace.getOffsetReferenceSpace()` which is described in the [Application supplied transforms section](#application-supplied-transforms). An example usage of an _viewer_ reference space is a furniture viewer that will use [click-and-drag controls](#click-and-drag-view-controls) to rotate the furniture. It also supports cases where the developer wishes to avoid displaying any type of tracking consent prompt to the user prior while displaying inline content.

> This type of reference space is requested with a type of `viewer` and returns a basic `XRReferenceSpace`. `XRViewerPose` objects retrieved with this reference space will have an identity `transform` (plus an offset if the reference space was created by calling `getOffsetReferenceSpace()`). `XRView`s populated from a `viewer` reference space will still be offset from the `XRViewerPose`'s `transform` as usual.

Reviewer: This somewhat confused me... perhaps this instead?
```suggestion
This type of reference space is requested with a type of `viewer` and returns a basic `XRReferenceSpace`. `XRViewerPose` objects retrieved with this reference space will have an identity `transform` (plus an offset if the reference space was created by calling `getOffsetReferenceSpace()`). `XRView`s populated from a `viewer` reference space will still be offset from the `XRViewerPose`'s `transform` in the same manner as all other reference spaces.
```

### Application-supplied transforms
Frequently developers will want to provide an additional, artificial transform on top of the user's tracked motion to allow the user to navigate larger virtual scenes than their tracking systems or physical space allows. This effect is traditionally accomplished by mathematically combining the API-provided transform with the desired additional application transforms. WebXR offers developers a simplification to ensure that all tracked values, such as viewer and input poses, are transformed consistently.

> Developers can specify application-specific transforms by calling the `getOffsetReferenceSpace()` method of any `XRReferenceSpace`. This returns a new `XRReferenceSpace` with an "effective origin" equal to the native origin of the parent reference space offset by the by the `position` and `orientation` described by the `XRRigidTransform` passed to `getOffsetReferenceSpace()` plus any offset applied to the reference space previously if it was also created with `getOffsetReferenceSpace()`.

Reviewer 2: I think it's confusing to use "plus" to refer to chaining or multiplying transforms.

Duplicate words: "by the by the"

"origin equal to ... native origin offset by" seems ill-defined. This would need to be expressed in terms of equivalence of transforms, or equality of coordinates after being transformed.

How about something like this?

Developers can specify application-specific transforms by calling the `getOffsetReferenceSpace()` method of any `XRReferenceSpace`. This returns a new `XRReferenceSpace` where the `XRRigidTransform` passed to `getOffsetReferenceSpace()` describes the position and orientation of the offset space's origin in relation to the base reference space's origin. Specifically, `originOffset.position` contains the coordinates of the new origin relative to the base reference space's origin. If the base reference space was also created with `getOffsetReferenceSpace()`, the overall offset is the combination of both transforms. 

Optional example:

```js
let offsetASpace = baseSpace.getOffsetReferenceSpace(offsetAInBase);
// offsetAInBase.matrix = baseFromA
let offsetBSpace = offsetASpace.getOffsetReferenceSpace(offsetBInA);
// offsetBInA.matrix = AFromB

// equivalent to:
let offsetBSpace = baseSpace.getOffsetReferenceSpace(offsetBInBase);
// offsetBInBase.matrix = baseFromA * AFromB = offsetAInBase.matrix * offsetBInA.matrix
```

Author: The proposed text here is perfect! I'm going to use it word-for-word. Thank you!

A common use case for this attribute would be for a "teleportation" mechanic, where the user "jumps" to a new point in the virtual scene, after which the selected point is treated as the new virtual origin which all tracked motion is relative to.

```js

> // Teleport the user a certain number of meters along the X, Y, and Z axes

Reviewer 2: This example is too vague to be useful, there's no explanation which sign of delta{X,Y,Z} corresponds to which of the movement direction interpretations.

Do you want to do something more along the lines of my more specific example in my old PR?

https://github.com/immersive-web/webxr/pull/569/files#diff-f02c24f867e61b8e58dc8f2c228f476cR242

Author: Updated the example to use comments and logic from your old PR (adapted to the new API shape.)

function teleport(deltaX, deltaY, deltaZ) {

>   xrReferenceSpace = xrReferenceSpace.getOffsetReferenceSpace(

Reviewer 3: I'd love to see a super-specific example of how a reference space and an offset reference space interact, not just how they can be used.  Would it make sense to add something like this?

For example:
offsetSpace = xrReferenceSpace.getOffsetReferenceSpace(new XRRigidTransform({x: 1, y:0, z:0});
// (0,0,0) in offsetSpace coordinates is (1,0,0) in xrReferenceSpace coordinates.

Similar for chained offsets to make it extra clear how they are chained.
offsetSpace1 = xrReferenceSpace.getOffsetReferenceSpace(new XRRigidTransform({x: 1,y: 0, z: 0});
offsetSpace2 = offsetSpace1.getOffsetReferenceSpace(<rotation around y axes by 180>);
(0,0,0) in offsetSpace2 is (0,0,0) in offsetspace1 is (1, 0, 0) in xrReferenceSpace, but
(1,0,0) in offsetSpace2 is (-1,0,0) in offsetSpace1 is (0,0,0) in xrReferenceSpace.

### Application-supplied transforms
Frequently developers will want to provide an additional, artificial transform on top of the user's tracked motion to allow the user to navigate larger virtual scenes than their tracking systems or physical space allows. This effect is traditionally accomplished by mathematically combining the API-provided transform with the desired additional application transforms. WebXR offers developers a simplification to ensure that all tracked values, such as viewer and input poses, are transformed consistently.

> Developers can specify application-specific transforms by calling the `getOffsetReferenceSpace()` method of any `XRReferenceSpace`. This returns a new `XRReferenceSpace` with an origin equal to the origin of the parent reference space offset by the by the `position` and `orientation` described by the `XRRigidTransform` passed to `getOffsetReferenceSpace()`.

Reviewer: Is there a reason not to introduce the concept of a native origin in the explainer?  I suspect it would make things quite a bit clearer...

A common use case for this attribute would be for a "teleportation" mechanic, where the user "jumps" to a new point in the virtual scene, after which the selected point is treated as the new virtual origin which all tracked motion is relative to.

```js
// Teleport the user a certain number of meters along the X, Y, and Z axes
function teleport(deltaX, deltaY, deltaZ) {
  xrReferenceSpace = xrReferenceSpace.getOffsetReferenceSpace(
      new XRRigidTransform({ x: deltaX, y: deltaY, z: deltaZ }));
}
```

### Relating between reference spaces
There are several circumstances in which developers may choose to relate content in different reference spaces.

#### Inline to Immersive

> It is expected that developers will often choose to preview `immersive` experiences with a similar experience `inline`. In this situation, users often expect to see the scene from the same perspective when they make the transition from `inline` to `immersive`. To accomplish this, developers should grab the `transform` of the last `XRViewerPose` retrieved using the `inline` session's `XRReferenceSpace` and pass it to `getOffsetReferenceSpace()` on the `immersive` session's `XRReferenceSpace` to produce an appropriately offset reference space. The same logic applies in the reverse when exiting `immersive`.

Reviewer: > To accomplish this, developers should grab the `transform` of the last `XRViewerPose` retrieved using the `inline` session's `XRReferenceSpace` and pass it to `getOffsetReferenceSpace()` on the `immersive` session's `XRReferenceSpace` to produce an appropriately offset reference space. The same logic applies in the reverse when exiting `immersive`.

Oh ick.  This means that developers will need to create a throw-away reference space so they can call `getOffsetReferenceSpace()` on it?  Should we be considering allowing an optional `XRRigidTransform` as a parameter to `requestReferenceSpace()`?

Author: I doubt that the "throwaway" reference space + one offset one will be all that expensive relative to creating the reference space with the right offset to begin with, but it's a valid API ergonomics issue. It should definitely be handled in a separate issue from this one, however, and I'd argue that it sounds to me like the type of convenience feature that would work really well for a "vNext" edition of the spec.

Reviewer: Sounds good.  Perhaps let's file the issue and put it in the "Future" milestone.

#### Unbounded to Bounded 
When building an experience that is predominantly based on an `unbounded` reference space, developers may occasionally choose to switch to a `bounded` reference space. For example, a whole-home renovation experience might choose to switch to a bounded reference space for reviewing a furniture selection library.  If necessary to continue displaying content belonging to the previous reference space, developers may call the `XRFrame`'s `getPose()` method to re-parent nearby virtual content to the new reference space.

### Click-and-drag view controls
Frequently with inline sessions it's desirable to have the view rotate when the user interacts with the inline canvas. This is useful on devices without tracking capabilities to allow users to still view the full scene, but can also be desirable on devices with some tracking capabilities, such as a mobile phone or tablet, as a way to adjust the users view without requiring them to physically turn around.

> By calling `getOffsetReferenceSpace()` in response to pointer events, pages can provide basic click-and-drag style controls to allow the user to pan the view around the immersive scene.

Reviewer: Given that we're encouraging this behavior in developers, I wonder if we want to add some spec text to encourage UAs to minimized duplicated data each time a `getOffsetReferenceSpace()` is called?

Author: By "duplicated data" I assume you mean the pose data that gets polled from the native API? (To which I agree.) That seems like it's technically an implementation detail, but I don't see much issue with adding a non-normative section to indicate that we expect that some apps may create a LOT of these. I'll add something to that effect.

Reviewer: Thanks for fixing this!

### Application-supplied transforms
Frequently developers will want to provide an additional, artificial transform on top of the user's tracked motion to allow the user to navigate larger virtual scenes than their tracking systems or physical space allows. This effect is traditionally accomplished by mathematically combining the API-provided transform with the desired additional application transforms. WebXR offers developers a simplification to ensure that all tracked values, such as viewer and input poses, are transformed consistently.

> Developers can specify application-specific transforms by calling the getOffsetReferenceSpace() method of any XRReferenceSpace. This returns a new XRReferenceSpace where the XRRigidTransform passed to getOffsetReferenceSpace() describes the position and orientation of the offset space's origin in relation to the base reference space's origin. Specifically, originOffset.position contains the coordinates of the new origin relative to the base reference space's origin. If the base reference space was also created with getOffsetReferenceSpace(), the overall offset is the combination of both transforms.

Reviewer 2: > Seems strange to be calling out position, but not orientation. Almost implies that orientation is ignored.

That wasn't the intent, a reason for having this here is that it's a fairly straightforward example that's easy to sanity check in terms of coordinates, and the previous sentence already mentioned "position and orientation". It's difficult to make a short-but-concrete example based on quaternions.

We could add something along these lines, but I think this may get clunky?

... and originOffset.orientation is a quaternion representing a rotation that transforms vectors in offset space coordinates to their coordinate values in the base reference space.

> Developers can specify application-specific transforms by calling the getOffsetReferenceSpace() method of any XRReferenceSpace. This returns a new XRReferenceSpace where the XRRigidTransform passed to getOffsetReferenceSpace() describes the position and orientation of the offset space's origin in relation to the base reference space's origin. Specifically, originOffset.position contains the coordinates of the new origin relative to the base reference space's origin. If the base reference space was also created with getOffsetReferenceSpace(), the overall offset is the combination of both transforms.

Reviewer 4: In general, if we could centrally establish once in the spec that a "pose" is a position and orientation applied in a specific order within a base space, we could easily and consistently describe all such use of poses throughout the spec in a straightforward manner:

> This returns a new XRReferenceSpace where the XRRigidTransform passed to getOffsetReferenceSpace() describes the pose of the offset space's origin within the base space.

function onPointerMove(event) {
  let s = Math.sin(event.movementX * RAD_PER_PIXEL);
  let c = Math.cos(event.movementX * RAD_PER_PIXEL);

  // Computes a quaternion to rotate around the Y axis.
  xrReferenceSpace = xrReferenceSpace.getOffsetReferenceSpace(

>     new XRRigidTransform(null, { x: 0, y: s, z: 0, w: c }));

Reviewer 3: If the API allows chaining transforms, numerical error may accumulate.  Should the spec/explainer call this out as a warning to implementers?

Author: Added a comment to this effect.

>     new XRRigidTransform(null, { x: 0, y: s, z: 0, w: c }));

Reviewer 2: I think this example may be a bit confusing, it implies that it rotates by a given angle, but the usual "quaternion from axis angle" formulas use sin/cos of half angles internally. I guess it doesn't matter since it's based on an arbitrary scale factor, but could lead to wrong results if people generalize it.

Author: Fixed
